---
title: "Welcome to the NLP Hightlights Podcast"
hosts: ["Matt Gardner","Waleed Ammar"]
guests: []
number: "000"
tags: []
description: "In this episode we briefly say what we're up to with the podcast. No technical content, just a description of what each episode will look like, and why we're doing this."
type: episode
---

<turn speaker="Matt Gardner" timestamp="00:00">

Hey Waleed, do you want to start a podcast?

</turn>


<turn speaker="Waleed Ammar" timestamp="00:02">

Sure, but what should we talk about?

</turn>


<turn speaker="Matt Gardner" timestamp="00:05">

Well I find myself listening to a whole lot of audio every day, but very little of it is related to
my work. There just isn't a lot of technical content available about natural language processing and
computer science research. So why don't we talk about that?

</turn>


<turn speaker="Waleed Ammar" timestamp="00:19">

Sounds like a good idea. So how about we pick a paper that we wanted to read anyway and then discuss
it in the podcast?

</turn>


<turn speaker="Matt Gardner" timestamp="00:28">

Yeah, I think that's a good idea. I have so many papers on my backlog that I should have already
read and I haven't read. So this seems like a pretty good forcing function to actually get us to
talk about things.

</turn>


<turn speaker="Waleed Ammar" timestamp="00:37">

Yeah. And you know what's also cool, we can invite the authors in some of the podcast episodes to
talk about their paper.

</turn>


<turn speaker="Matt Gardner" timestamp="00:43">

Yeah, that's a really good idea. We can have nice, interesting conversations about things people are
working on.

</turn>


<turn speaker="Waleed Ammar" timestamp="00:49">

Okay. Looking forward to it.

</turn>


<turn speaker="Matt Gardner" timestamp="00:52">

Okay. So here's what we're going to do. We're going to start this podcast called the NLP Highlights
Podcast. And every day or close to every day as often as we can actually manage to record this.
We'll see how well we do with this. We'll pick a paper, we'll read it and talk about what's
interesting about this paper. Maybe sometimes it'll be a general topic instead of a particular
paper, but we will talk about recent happenings in the world of natural language processing.

</turn>


<turn speaker="Waleed Ammar" timestamp="01:23">

And sometimes we'd be inviting the authors of the paper to discuss the paper in more detail. So
these episodes maybe a little longer than the other ones.

</turn>


<turn speaker="Matt Gardner" timestamp="01:32">

And our intent is to keep these episodes generally pretty short each one, when we're talking about a
paper, it'll probably be 10 or so minutes per episode. Maybe if we're having an interesting
conversation with the guests, it could be a little bit longer than that, but typically about 10
minutes per day or episode, however frequent the episodes turn out to be. And that's about it. We're
going to give this a go and see how well we can make this work. It's going to be a little rough at
the beginning. We both are pretty new to this and figuring out good ways to describe things
succinctly and clearly is hard. So sorry if this is hard to listen to at the beginning we're doing
this mostly for us and if you enjoy it then great. And we hope we will get better as this goes on.
And as we said, we're planning on inviting people to be, to participate in this podcast with us if
you are interested in this, please let us know.

</turn>


<turn speaker="Matt Gardner" timestamp="02:24">

You can find our contact information online pretty easily, I am Matt Gardner and this is Waleed
Ammar and we're at the Allen Institute for Artificial Intelligence and simple web searches should
find us easily enough. Also, feel free to drop us a line. If you have any feedback about the content
on here, if you think there are things that you would like to see us do or encouragement, letting us
know that you actually are listening and enjoy what we're doing. So we should keep going. And with
that, we'll call it a wrap on this entire episode. Next one, we'll actually dive into interesting
content looking forward to see you then.

</turn>
